        VOR Calculator
(UNION Edition, using VOR Rulebook and UNION Force Book)


What does this Calculator?

It calculates a UNION force which do the most damage to a certain enemy force using
genetic algorithms.

Some notes to "VorCalc.exe":

It's kinda easy to use. Just start the program and you see a list of items.
If you don't understand the stuff listed there, just 'let the program do the dirty work' 
and watch its process.
The program will restart 10 times ('runs') to find a good force.
You can stop the program at any time by just hit the 'any-key' key on your keyboard ;-)
After 10 runs the program will print out a force which should do some severe damage to 
the enemy.

Yes you think right, the power of a force also depends on the enemy force, so there is 
a file called 'enemy.army'. There you can set up your own enemy army (see below).

Oh, yes, one last word:
This program really finds out the best combination possible, but only within parameters.
VOR is more than a bunch of numbers, in most cases you just can't use all of your units, there 
are obstacles or special circumstances which changes the outcome of the battle totally.
In addition this program completely ignores close combat because it is much more complicated and special 
abilities, initiative rolls etc. are also "out of range".

What I will add (which is also not integrated in the program yet) is the range & range modificators.
So this will give another boost to those long range weapons.
On the other side, close combat fighters will not show themselves up but hide behind those nasty stones, 
trees etc ;-)



Some notes to "enemy.army":

The first number, the point value of your army, is calculated this way:
PV=Number*250+250
i.e. 
0=250, 1=500, 2=750, 3=1000,...
(i.e. : Yes I was too lazy :P)
In this version the number of enemy units of one type (=count) and the Point Value Number may not
exceed nine.
The table should be self-explaining, just enter the statistics of the units 
(only life, size, armor, body and how many there are in the force).

I set the maximum for different unit types to 10, that should be enough.
Just change the growler army in the list to your 'own' enemy and test what the program will find out.

One last thing: Don't use any numbers in this file except in the table and the PV (this will
confuse the program and will create "ghost" units (yes, I think you want
to test it just to see that, but believe me, it's NOT worth it ;-) Weapons will do 0 damage then).


VOR, the Maelstrom, those nice Forcebooks etc. are all copyrighted by its owners
(FASA, Fanpro etc.)

You may give away this program freely if you publish it with all files
(VorCalc.exe, read.me and enemy.army)

And don't forget to look www.clawsoftware.de for updates and, if you have
suggestions, problems etc. just write a nice or (in case of a crashed computer) not-so-nice Email to:
	ghoul@clawsoftware.de


                                        Have a nice day,
                                                Clemens Lode, 12/26/01
